

Compare Spark and Hadoop, list reasons and examples why Spark would outperform Hadoop
They are both software frameworks that process and store bigdata.
Hadoop is Disk based for storage and processing which can be slow and only used for batch processing
Spark uses in memory processing for Big data which makes it fast and can be used for both batch and streaming processing
Spark is easier to use since you can use multiple Languages and APi. Haddoop you are stuck with Java or Python with MapReduce.
List some use cases where Spark outperforms Hadoop in processing.
Sensor Data Processing Apache Spark In-memory computing works best here, as data is retrieved and combined from different sources.
Spark is preferred over Hadoop for real time querying of data
Stream Processing For processing logs and detecting frauds in live streams for alerts, Apache Spark is the best solution.


What is the difference between repartition and coalesce?
coalesce uses existing data to make decreased uneven partitions, repartition makes new equal sized partitions. repartition in expensive and slow but the data is easier accessible.

How would you check a JVM run time for stats on which methods are taking the longest to run?
Use JVM Tools:
JPS, JSTAT

System.nanoTime();

\\\long max 2^63 , min - -2^63
long startTime = System.nanoTime();

static void myMethod() {
    System.out.println("Hello World");
  }

long endTime = System.nanoTime();
System.out.println("Took "+(endTime - startTime) + " ns");


How would you use Unix tools to check stats of running processes?
Use ps -aux or sudo ps -a  and pipe more/less and grep


What is the role of the partition key within Kafka?
Kafka uses the key of the message to select the partition of the topic it writes to.

Before you send a message you have to give it a key to tell it where to go, what is the purpose of the key?
Keys are used to determine the partition within a log to which a message get's appended to. While the value is the actual payload of the message.


What is the method you can use in Kafka to tell it to process it's value?
map


What happens internally if you don't give Kafka a key?
It will randomly partition using a round robin


How would you performance tune a Spark application to make it run more efficiently?
1.	within the code, Broadcast variables to reduce overhead and transform partition not rows
2.	Java or Kyra Data Serialization
3.	Memory management and tuning – Data Structure and JVM Garbage Collection

How would you ensure that users have access to the correct data?
Set Access Roles

How can Spark be connected to Apache Mesos
Spark Binary package set up for Meso and Spark Driver configured to run Meso
Spark. Conf( .setmaster(URL:Port)
OR
Install Spark In the same location of the Meso slaves then configure spark.meso.executor.home to point to that location.

From a scaling perspective, if you have hundreds of users on the cluster, how do you guarantee good performance?
Having dedicated ques, disabling preemption on those ques so users get good performance.

Q: Explain the Big O theory
A: Big O theory in short is how complex the code and how long it takes to run the solution. Big O notation is a mathematical notation that describes the limiting behavior of a function when the argument tends towards a particular value or infinity.

Q: This team runs privacy infrastructure. If user asks to delete their data on HDFS, how would you find the right data in hundreds of petabytes of data?
A: HDFS an append file system, you cannot go into the file and delete specific portions of the file. Must read all of HDFS data/filter it and write back out with all of the data removed.
Follow up Q:How could you optimize that process?
A1: Store THE DATA in most efficient format possible Parquet
A2: Can use advanced delta storage units Apache Iceberg /Delta Lake/ Apache Hudi

Q: Explain about the different cluster managers in Apache Spark
Standalone cluster manager is a simple cluster manager that comes included with the Spark.
Hadoop YARN, a distributed computing framework for job scheduling and cluster resource management,
Apache Mesos - Apache Mesos is a cluster manager that can also run Hadoop MapReduce and service applications.
